Howard Moulton Jr. - March 6

Hi,
 My name is Howard and I came across your site while I was attempting
to find the original CBBS CP/M software source. I actually marveled at
discovering the noting that I was the original writer of RBBS. As far
as I know, this was the only version of a BBS ever written in Basic.
At the time, I did not know machine language and thought that my town
should have a BBS too. It's name was derived from where I was living
at the time - St. Johnsbury, VT. It was written on a TDL Xitan Z-80
S-100 machine, in TDL Xitan basic that ran on Micropolis 5.25 100tpi
drives using the Micropolis operating system. The modem was a Bell
Systems Dataset 202A found at a hamfest. You had to manually dial the
number on your phone and wait until you heard the tone before
switching over to the Dataset, similar to acoustic of the time. It
would automatically answer calls without intervention. I had worked on
it for about a week, trying to get it to behave in the likeness of
Wards' CBBS. It did the store-and-forward part of messaging similar to
CBBS except that it was considerabley slower than its ML counterpart,
mainly due to the fact that the Micropolis drives were EXTREMELY slow
- nearly 200ms track-track seek times. TDL Xitan basic made up for
some of the loss in speed because it was written in Z80, not in 8080
like MBASIC (and I had beefed the TDL Z80 "ZPU" as they called it, to
3.5 MHZ). I finally called into CBBS and asked Ward to call mine and
tell me what he thought after. He did. While his version could run
circles around mine ten fold, this basic version could be easily
ported to any machine that could imtrepret basic. My good friend at
the time in Johnson City, NY, Charles, received a copy and adapted it
to his setup without much change. He in turn released a copy to Bruce
with my blessing, and history tells the rest. When Randy and Ward
finally made CBBS available to the public, I bought the 2 disk set,
even though I did not have 8" drives at the time. I received them and
just stored them for future use. I think I may still have them in the
original mailer that Randy used. They have never been inserted in a
drive so I'm not so sure they're readable now. If I locate them, I'll
send along a snap of them.
So thanks for your efforts to track down how BBS's really blew into a
frenzy there for a short while and  actually paved the way to the
internet.

Good work on this site. I love it.

73's de W1ARQ  Howard Moulton
